# Incident: 2026-04-09 16:33:21

## Summary

Between the hours of 16:32 and 18:52 on 2026-04-09 UTC, 1 user encountered the Chaos Monkey attack. The event was triggered by an agent of Chaos taking control of the JWT Pizza Factory and stealing the special delicious JWT tokens from our user's orders.

This caused the affected user to buy invalid pizzas. The event was detected by our Unhandled Exceptions Alert. The team started working on the event by trying to understand what the error was indicating. This severe incident affected 100% of users.

## Detection

This incident was detected when the Uncaught Exception Alert was triggered and JWT DevOps were paged.

Next, Dallin Jackson was paged, because he was the developer on call. He awknowledged the error after seeing the email alert appear in his inbox.

## Impact

The incident occured for 2hrs 20 minutes between 16:32 and 18:52 on 2026-04-09 UTC.

This incident affected 1 customer, but only because one customer was repeatedly trying to get a JWT Token during the error. Any other user attempting this would have also been affected.

## Timeline

All times are UTC.

- _16:32_ - An uncaught exception was logged and an alert was triggered after 1 minute
- _16:36_ - Dallin Jackson, the on call developer awknowledged the alert
- _16:40_ - DevOps begins to go through the exception, an error making pizzas is detected
- _16:44_ - DevOps starts implementing fix in jwt-service-code
- _17:12_ - DevOps sees the Chaos Monkey Message embedded in the factory response
- _18:53_ - DevOps follows link left by Chaos Monkey, realizes the error was not in code. Pizza factory is recovered

## Response

After receiving a page at 16:36 UTC, Dallin Jackson came online at 16:40 UTC in Grafana. After going through the service code for 2 hours, he remembered the instructions from his onboarding that said "you will not need to change any code." After this Dallin Jackson followed the link left in factory response.

## Root cause

A violent hacker, Chaos Monkey, is rouge in the JWT Pizza Factory Team, they are trying to steal the delicious MLM pizzas from our customers. The unknown developer left a "Chaos Button" in the Factory site which should _NOT_ be clicked.

## Resolution

By following the link left in the factory pizza making response the hacker was pacified and returned the factory to us. Do what he says quickly.

## Prevention

This button is still in the factoy website, when clicked it will enrage the Chaos Monkey.

## Action items

1. Mandatory Safety Training on not clicking _Initiate Chaos_ button in the factory website.
2. HR presentation on how we can exist peacefully with the Chaos Monkey in our factory.
3. Specific Alert to recognize when our pizzas are returning a Chaos Monkey link.
4. Contact Pizza Factory Manager about finding the Chaos Monkey.
